 CRAIG JONES WINS 4TH N.C. INVITATIONAL IN LAST 6 YEARS


    In an exciting down-to-the-wire finish, Craig Jones dominated a
strong field in the 2010 North Carolina Chess Invitational at Durham
Academy, winning his fourth title in the last six years.  He finished with
4.0/5.0 (loss to Carlito Agner) in the six-player, round robin tournament.  He
trails only Greg Samsa (8), Tim Taylor (5), and Jonathan Schroer (5) in wins at
this prestigious event.  Agner made a rare local appearance to take a clear 2nd
place with 3.5/5.0 (loss to Ron Simpson, draw with Chris Mabe).  The win makes
Jones an automatic qualifier for next year's North Carolina Invitational which
will serve to determine the State Champion.



    In a last round finish that went right to the wire, Jones (white)
came through with a tactical win over Mabe that knocked all others out of
contention.  At the start of Round 5, Jones and Mabe were tied with 3.0 points
with Mabe and Simpson hot on their heels with 2.5 points. Jones could win the
title outright with a win, but a draw would open the door to a potential
four-way tie.  Maurice Dana (black) dropped Simpson out of contention first by
winning a game that the other players agreed was the game of the tournament.
John Timmel (white) and Agner settled into what proved to be an extremely long
game that did not finish until well after everyone else had left.  Jones didn't
want to wait around and he dispatched Mabe soon after the Dana-Simpson game
finished, leaving Agner to fight for 2nd place in the final contest.



    The tournament began on Friday evening, April 23rd at 8 p.m.
Simpson (white) beat Agner, Mabe (white) beat Dana, and Jones (black) beat
Timmel.  On Saturday the surprising result was that white did not win any of the
six games played in the two sessions.  At the morning session, Agner (black)
dealt Jones his only defeat, Timmel (black) pushed Dana to 0-2 when Dana missed
a key move, and Mabe (black) played to a draw with Simpson.  Returning for the
afternoon/evening session, Mabe (black) drew Agner, Simpson (black) defeated
Timmel, and Jones (black) dropped Dana to 0-3.  The tide turned on Sunday
morning, however, when white won all three games.  Agner (white) increased
Dana's misery, pushing his record to 0-4, Mabe (white) won against Timmel,
setting himself up for a championship showdown as Jones (white) defeated Simpson
to gain the other seat in the title game.



    The final round began with everyone having something at stake.
Dana (black) salvaged his weekend by developing a crushing attack on Simpson
that left Simpson's king scrambling for cover.  Dana was down a pawn, then
sacked the exchange to strip away Simpson's defenses. Simpson's hopes for a 2nd
Invitational title faded quickly as Dana relentlessly cornered his king.  Jones
(white) and Mabe were both playing for a win to take an undisputed title.  In an
exciting tactical contest, it appeared to be anyone's game right up to the point
where Jones pulled a bishop fork that cost Mabe a piece.  Mabe immediately
resigned as playing a piece down against Jones would not be much fun.  Dana,
Simpson, Jones, and Mabe retired to the skittles room to analyze their last
round games while Timmel (white) and Agner played to determine who would finish
second.  A win by Agner would give him clear 2nd, a draw would tie him with
Mabe, and a lost would award a clear second to Mabe.  Agner was able to win a
pawn in the middle game while he and Timmel were busy trading away most of their
pieces.  By move 36 they had settled into an endgame where Agner was up 3 pawns
to 2 and both players had a knight as well as opposite colored bishops.  The
game became extremely tactical as Agner attempted to advance his pawns and
Timmel did his best to stop them. It took until move 60 to get a single pair of
pawns off the board.  By this time everyone had gone home except the two players
and Assistant TD/Invitational organizer, Walter High.  Agner knew he had to win
for a clear 2nd and was beginning to fight the clock.  He forced the knights off
the board on move 74 and the anvil over Timmel's head became apparent.  Two
moves later Timmel resigned when it was obvious Agner would queen a pawn.



    Not only was the tournament exciting down to the last game, the
players enjoyed the venue at Durham Academy.  It was extremely quiet
as no one was around the playing area all weekend and the contenders were able
to concentrate without interruption.  TD Tim Rankin and Assistant TD Walter High
provided updates online to the NCCA website which allowed interested chess
aficionados to follow the tournament's progress.  With the assistance of Phil
Lowder, the NCCA webmaster, the moves of the final game between Jones and Mabe
were reported as they were played on the website.  Interested observer William
LeFew stopped by both Saturday and Sunday to provide an audience of one.  Most
of the players are well-known to each other and to the North Carolina chess
community, but Carlito Agner was a bit of a wild card.  A National Master (2237)
who moved to the Triangle from Michigan in 2007, Agner had only played in five
tournaments during the last three years.  The North Carolina veterans agreed
that Agner was a very sharp, very tactical player and that he could be a real
force in this state if he played more often on the regular circuit.  Agner
qualified for the Invitational by playing four tournaments in 2009 after not
having played at all in 2008.



    The 2010 North Carolina State Champion will be determined at the
North Carolina Open in Charlotte over the Labor Day weekend.  In 2011
however, the State Champion will be the winner of the North Carolina
Invitational.  Craig Jones has already qualified by winning the 2010
Invitational.  The top two North Carolina residents in the 2010 N.C.
Open will also be rewarded with spots in the 2011 Invitational.  The
final three spots will go to the North Carolina players with the
highest USCF ELO rating provided they have played a minimum number of
games at North Carolina tournaments.  The competition to qualify
should be fierce this year as many chess players covet a spot in this
prestigious tournament.



Submitted by Dr. Walter M. High (NCCA Vice-President)
